#LyX file created by tex2lyx 2.2
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin C:/Users/George/Google Drive/Classes - Active/BASV 316 - Research/Labs - PSPP/Lab Manual/2017 Fall/FrontBackmatter/
\textclass scrreprt
\options openright,titlepage,numbers=noenddot,headinclude,footinclude=true,cleardoublepage=empty,abstractoff,BCOR=5mm,fontsize=11pt
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package none
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american

\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
%*****************************************
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*

\lang american
Forward
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american

\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "for:forward"

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset ERT
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
%*****************************************
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american
I have taught BASV 316, 
\shape italic
Introductory Methods of Analysis
\shape default
, online for the University of Arizona in Sierra Vista since 2010 and enjoy working with students on research methodology. From the start, I wanted students to work with statistics that are commonly found in research. It is my belief that the best way to understand what statistics can, and cannot, prove is to calculate values using a known dataset. As I evaluated statistical software for this class I had three criteria:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang american

\series bold
Open Educational Resource (OER)
\series default
. It is important to me that students use software that is available free of charge and is supported by the entire web community. 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang american

\series bold
Platform
\series default
. While most of my students use a Windows-based system, some use Macintosh and it was important to me to use software that is available for all of those platforms. As a bonus, most OER software is also available for the Linux system, though I'm not aware of any of my students who are using Linux. 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\lang american

\series bold
Longevity
\series default
. I wanted a system that could be used in other college classes or in a business setting after graduation. That way, any time a student spends learning the software in my class will be an investment that can yield results for many years. 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american
I originally wrote a series of six lab exercises (later expanded to nine) using R-Project since that software met these three criteria. Moreover, R-Project is a recognized standard for statistical analysis and could be easily used for even peer-reviewed published papers. Unfortunately, I found R-Project to be confusing to students since it is text-based with rather complex commands. I found that I spent a lot of time just teaching students how to set up a single test with R-Project instead of analyzing the result. In the spring of 2017 I changed to 
\family typewriter
SOFA
\family default
 (
\shape italic
Statistics Open For All
\shape default
) because it is much easier to use and still met my criteria. However, SOFA is a stand-alone product that students would not likely be able to use beyond this class so in the fall of 2017 I changed to 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
. 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
 looks and works like SPSS, which is the leading statistical analysis software package used in research around the world. 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
 is a simplified version of SPSS and has only a few statistical analysis options available, but those are enough for many undergraduate projects. Moreover, I believe that students who learn 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
 in this class and later need the power of SPSS will find the transition to be very smooth since the two programs have a similar menu structure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american
This lab manual explores many aspects of 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
 but does not attempt to dig into every corner of this software. It is my hope that students will find the labs instructive and will then be able to use 
\family typewriter
PSPP
\family default
, or smoothly transition into SPSS, for other classes. This lab manual is published under a Creative Commons license with a goal that other instructors will modify it to meet their own needs. I always welcome comments and will improve this manual as I receive feedback.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\lang american

\begin_inset VSpace bigskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align right

\lang american
—George Self 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
